DOCS-6701 Email Connector Gmail (#719)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/email/email-gmail.adoc

[[short_description]]
These examples provide guidance for setting up a Gmail connection using Email Connector over the available protocols.

> == Gmail Configurations

Reviewer: Suggest omitting everything up to the edit suggestion in Lines 17 through 20.
I left the original edits just to show the thought path....

> By default, Google might block third-party mail clients. For Google to authorize a third-party server to access your account, you must enable the *Less Secure Apps* setting for your Gmail account. 

Reviewer: By default it MIGHT? Does it, or does it not?
Hmm...maybe we could just use the second sentence? Or:
```suggestion
Google might block third-party mail clients if you do not enable the *Less Secure Apps* setting for your Gmail account. 
```

> You can read a full explanation of the risks involved in enabling less secure apps and get a full explanation https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/6010255[here]. Essentially, Google blocks any apps that are not using security protocols that Google deems mandatory unless you allow less secure apps to access your Gmail account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can read a full explanation of the risks involved in enabling less secure-apps https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/6010255[here]. Essentially, Google blocks any apps that are not using security protocols that Google deems mandatory unless you allow less secure apps to access your Gmail account.
```
But...this still sounds to me like a lot of sentences saying different versions of the same thing.
Consider replacing all of the previous text with something like this:

```suggestion
Google blocks any apps that are not using security protocols that Google deems mandatory unless you enable the *Less Secure Apps* setting for your Gmail account. 
```
I don't think you need to provide the link if you were able to summarize with "Essentially,...."

> When you try to connect to your Gmail for the first time, you will receive an email that contains a link for enabling less secure apps in your Gmail account.

Reviewer: Should this sentence PRECEDE the one that I am suggesting replace all of the previous text?

```suggestion
When you try to connect to your Gmail account for the first time, you receive an email that contains a link for enabling less-secure apps in your Gmail account:
+ image::email/email-gmail-security.jpg[Email notification from Google about the blocked sign-in attempt,height=389,width=421]
+ If you do not use the link, Google blocks any apps that are not using security protocols that Google deems mandatory.
```

You can read a full explanation of the risks involved in enabling less secure apps and get a full explanation https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/6010255[here]. Essentially, Google blocks any apps that are not using security protocols that Google deems mandatory unless you allow less secure apps to access your Gmail account.

image::email/email-gmail-security.jpg[Email notification from Google about the blocked sign-in attempt,height=389,width=421]
When you try to connect to your Gmail for the first time, you will receive an email that contains a link for enabling less secure apps in your Gmail account.

You can also enable Less Secure Apps from here:
image::email/email-gmail-security.jpg[Email notification from Google about the blocked sign-in attempt,height=389,width=421]

> `"MyAccount" > "Sign-in & security" > "Connected apps & sites" > "Allow less secure apps"`

Reviewer: Omit per above suggestion.

=== SMTP Configuration

> Configure the following equired parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure the following required parameters:
```

<email:smtp-config name="smtp-gmail" from="sender@gmail.com">
    <email:smtps-connection host="smtp.gmail.com"
      port="465" password="mypassword"
      user="user@gmail.com">
        <tls:context enabledProtocols="TLSv1.2,SSLv3">
            <tls:trust-store insecure="true"/>
        </tls:context>
    </email:smtps-connection>
</email:smtp-config>
----

== Troubleshoot SMTPS Connection Issues

> The way you troubleshoot SMTPS connection issues depends on whether or not you have two-factor set up for your Gmail account. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The way you troubleshoot SMTPS connection issues depends on whether or not you have two-factor authentication set up for your Gmail account. 
```

If you have two-factor authentication set up:

> . There is no need for you to turn *Less Secure Apps* on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. There is no need for you to enable *Less Secure Apps*.
```

> . Generate an app-specific password and use that instead of your normal password. See https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185833[Sign in using App Password] for details.

Reviewer: GLOBAL formatting correction:
```suggestion
. Generate an app-specific password and use that instead of your normal password. 
+
+ See https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185833[Sign in Using App Password] for details.
```

If you do not have two-factor authentication set up:

. Enable *Less Secure Apps*.

> . If using your normal password does not work, go to https://accounts.google.com/DisplayUnlockCaptcha[Allow Access to your Google Account] and:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If using your normal password does not work, go to https://accounts.google.com/DisplayUnlockCaptcha[Allow Access to Your Google Account] and:
```
